So let's go to details.jsx.
And we're gonna use this now.
So up here at the top, we're gonna
import some useState from React.
I was like having React to the top,
I don't know why that's just
a force of habit I suppose.
And then under here I'll put like import,
Modal from modal, cool?
Here, I'm gonna have const showModal and
then SetShowModal to useState,
we do not want it to show by default,
so I'm gonna say false.
And then here on my button,
I'm gonna have an unClick =
setShowModal to be true.
So anytime someone clicks
the Adopt Pet name button,
from inside our component,
it's gonna show the modal, right?
And then now here's kind of a,
we can put this modal really anywhere
cuz it doesn't really matter.
So we'll just put it here
underneath the pet description.
I'm gonna say if showModal.
Then we're gonna display this modal.
And here we'll have a div and
h1 of would you like to adopt pet.name
And then we have a div
className = buttons.
And we have a button say yes.
And a button to say, we'll put unClick
on this as well to close the showModal.
So onClick, SetShowModal
to false, no.
Okay, so if showModal is true,
show the modal with
all that stuff in it otherwise
show them no, right?
You can always render no which
rendering no just does nothing, right?
This is a ternary, we've done this
I think already in this class.
But basically if this is true,
do the first thing otherwise
do the thing after it.
So if it's true show the modal
with all this stuff in it.
If showModal is false and render nothing.
Let's go make sure that I'm
telling the truth here.
If I click adopt Luna and
I get this nice modal here, right?
And I'll click No, and it'll go away.
So click this and
then let's inspect element here.
I have modal here and notice this is
above root, this is a buffer app.
So it's rendering to a different
part of the application, right?
It's rendering above route,
which made writing the CSS for this,
extremely easy, right?
This is the power of portal.
This makes a lot of things
like contextual navigation and
writing the modals and
stuff like that much easier.
Cool, other things I think are cool
about this, so I'm rendering this modal,
it's rendering inside of this
React application, right?
And I'm using things like SetShowModal and
pet.name.
So I'm using all the state from inside
of this to render somewhere else,
which you wouldn't be able
to do otherwise, right?
It'd be much harder for
us to do this without a portal.
We'd have to pull all of our pet state
out to app.JSX to be able to handle
that otherwise,
which would be really hard.
Last thing, which is kind of
interesting sort of feature of this.
Because this is going through
the React virtual DOM, and
the React virtual DOM is different
than the normal DOM, right?
Because this is nested inside of here
inside of the React virtual DOM.
Whereas it's not in
the inside of the normal DOM.
I can actually put an event listener up
here and catch events bubbling from here.
Let me just make sure that I'm
not telling you sweet lies.
Yeah, this is gonna get mad for
accessibility reasons.
Yeah, that which is absolutely correct.
You should not put an on click on a div.
It's bad idea, Right,
which is wild to me, right?
So I'm clicking on a modal, right?
So this is rendering on
a different part of the page.
And then I'm clicking here and
it's calling the unclick from
a different part of the DOM.
I don't know why you'd wanna do this,
but I do think it is cool, right?
Okay.
Any questions about modals or
portals or refs?
We'll talk more about refs and
intermediate React.
So don't worry so much about that, but in
general with refs, if you have something
that you need to have the exact same thing
every single time that you're using it.
The ref is the way to keep
track of that over time.
And generally, usually has something
to do with DOM elements, right?
Cuz you want to have access to a specific
DOM element, refs are useful for that.
Anything else?
Cool, I think portals are extremely useful
cuz I used to have to write modals and
stuff the old way.
>> How do you pass the button
click info back to the parent,
which button was clicked?
>> Sure.
So we were in here.
I have two buttons here, or even here.
I think that's probably, well,
let's do buttons cuz that's
what we're talking about.
Let's say we wanted to have
an unclick on here on this div,
or this one here on click equals,
This is just a normal,
you can treat it like a normal DOM event.
So you can just say
console.log(e.current Target,
well, just (e.currentTarget will be fine,
right?
And now if I re-click on this, Console,
I save this refresh again.
Adopt Luna Or
I guess this would be target then.
Let's try that one more time.
I'm trying to remember exactly
the way that you would do this.
All right, let's just log.e.
Anyway it's gonna be on the event itself.
So you can see this is
a synthetic base event.
So it's a fake event coming from React.
And I forgot about this, so whenever
you're doing things like logging out
events and stuff like that,
it'll zero it out for
you because it doesn't wanna
hold on to references for you.
Which can be annoying and Chrome lazily
evaluates those display things.
Anyway, diff buttons, view,
React name, unclick target.
So in other words,
you would just introspect the event.
If you were doing something like higher
level than that, but a much easier way of
handling that would be just have
different onClicks here, right?
So unclick here equals,
And now if I click Yes here,
it's gonna say yes.
Or if I click no,
then it's gonna close it, right?
So you would just have different
unclicks for every event on there.
So that's probably
the easiest way to do that.